
Existing Maps
=============

Pancan12
--------

The diverse tumor set called “Pan-Cancer-12,” is composed of 12 different
malignancies. It comprises 3,527 cases assayed by at least four of the six
possible data types routinely generated by The Cancer Genome Atlas: whole-exome
DNA sequence (Illumina HiSeq and GAII), DNA copy number variation (Affymetrix
6.0 microarrays), DNA methylation (Illumina 450,000-feature microarrays),
genome-wide mRNA levels (Illumina mRNA-seq), microRNA levels (Illumina
microRNA-seq), and protein levels for 131 proteins and/or phosphorylated
proteins (Reverse Phase Protein Arrays; RPPA).
              
Hoadley,K.A., Yau,C., Wolf,D.M., Cherniack,A.D., Tamborero,D., Ng,S.,
Leiserson,M.D.M., Niu,B., McLellan,M.D., Uzunangelov,V., et al. (2014)
`Multiplatform analysis of 12 cancer types reveals molecular classification
within and across tissues of origin
<https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4152462/>`_.,
Cell, 158, 929–44.



Gliomas
-------

We assembled a dataset comprising all TCGA newly diagnosed diffuse glioma
consisting of 1,122 patients and comprehensively analyzed using sequencing and
array-based molecular profiling approaches.

We extended our analysis using Tumor Map to perform integrated co-clustering
analysis of the combined gene expression (n = 1,196) and DNA methylation (n =
867) profiles. Clusters in the map indicate groups of samples with high
similarity of integrated gene expression and DNA methylation profiles.
              
Ceccarelli,M., Barthel,F.P., Malta,T.M., Sabedot,T.S., Salama,S.R., Murray,B.A.,
Morozova,O., Newton,Y., Radenbaugh,A., Pagnotta,S.M., et al. (2016)
`Molecular Profiling Reveals Biologically Discrete Subsets and Pathways of
Progression in Diffuse Glioma
<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26824661>`_.
Cell, 164, 550–63.


QuakeBrain
----------

We used single cell RNA sequencing on 466 cells to capture the cellular
complexity of the adult and fetal human brain at a whole transcriptome level.
Healthy adult temporal lobe tissue was obtained during surgical procedures where
otherwise normal tissue was removed to gain access to deeper hippocampal
pathology in patients with medical refractory seizures. We were able to classify
individual cells into all of the major neuronal, glial, and vascular cell types
in the brain. We were able to divide neurons into individual communities and
show that these communities preserve the categorization of interneuron subtypes
that is typically observed with the use of classic interneuron markers.
          
Darmanis,S., Sloan,S.A., Zhang,Y., Enge,M., Caneda,C., Shuer,L.M., Hayden
Gephart,M.G., Barres,B.A. and Quake,S.R. (2015)
`A survey of human brain transcriptome diversity at the single cell level
<http://www.pnas.org/content/112/23/7285.abstract>`_.
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A., 112, 7285–90.


pCHIPS
------

The presented pChips data set is a subset of Pancan12 data supplemented by
clinical tissue from lethal metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer
patients obtained at rapid autopsy.
              
Drake,J.M., Paull,E.O., Graham,N.A., Lee,J.K., Smith,B.A., Titz,B.,
Stoyanova,T., Faltermeier,C.M., Uzunangelov,V., Carlin,D.E., et al. (2016)
`Phosphoproteome Integration Reveals Patient-Specific Networks in Prostate
Cancer
<http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0092867416309138>`_.
Cell, 166, 1041–1054.
